=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mojo::Promise - Promises/A+

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Mojo::Promise;
  use Mojo::UserAgent;

  # Wrap continuation-passing style APIs with promises
  my $ua = Mojo::UserAgent->new;
  sub get {
    my $promise = Mojo::Promise->new;
    $ua->get(@_ => sub {
      my ($ua, $tx) = @_;
      my $err = $tx->error;
      if   (!$err || $err->{code}) { $promise->resolve($tx) }
      else                         { $promise->reject($err->{message}) }
    });
    return $promise;
  }

  # Perform non-blocking operations sequentially
  get('https://mojolicious.org')->then(sub {
    my $mojo = shift;
    say $mojo->res->code;
    return get('https://metacpan.org');
  })->then(sub {
    my $cpan = shift;
    say $cpan->res->code;
  })->catch(sub {
    my $err = shift;
    warn "Something went wrong: $err";
  })->wait;

  # Synchronize non-blocking operations (all)
  my $mojo = get('https://mojolicious.org');
  my $cpan = get('https://metacpan.org');
  Mojo::Promise->all($mojo, $cpan)->then(sub {
    my ($mojo, $cpan) = @_;
    say $mojo->[0]->res->code;
    say $cpan->[0]->res->code;
  })->catch(sub {
    my $err = shift;
    warn "Something went wrong: $err";
  })->wait;

  # Synchronize non-blocking operations (race)
  my $mojo = get('https://mojolicious.org');
  my $cpan = get('https://metacpan.org');
  Mojo::Promise->race($mojo, $cpan)->then(sub {
    my $tx = shift;
    say $tx->req->url, ' won!';
  })->catch(sub {
    my $err = shift;
    warn "Something went wrong: $err";
  })->wait;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojo::Promise> is a Perl-ish implementation of
L<Promises/A+|https://promisesaplus.com>.

=head1 STATES

A promise is an object representing the eventual completion or failure of a
non-blocking operation. It allows non-blocking functions to return values, like
blocking functions. But instead of immediately returning the final value, the
non-blocking function returns a promise to supply the value at some point in the
future.

A promise can be in one of three states:

=over 2

=item pending

Initial state, neither fulfilled nor rejected.

=item fulfilled

Meaning that the operation completed successfully.

=item rejected

Meaning that the operation failed.

=back

A pending promise can either be fulfilled with a value or rejected with a
reason. When either happens, the associated handlers queued up by a promise's
L</"then"> method are called.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

L<Mojo::Promise> implements the following attributes.

=head2 ioloop

  my $loop = $promise->ioloop;
  $promise = $promise->ioloop(Mojo::IOLoop->new);

Event loop object to control, defaults to the global L<Mojo::IOLoop> singleton.
Note that this attribute is weakened.

=head1 METHODS

L<Mojo::Promise> inherits all methods from L<Mojo::Base> and implements
the following new ones.

=head2 all

  my $new = Mojo::Promise->all(@promises);

Returns a new L<Mojo::Promise> object that either fulfills when all of the
passed L<Mojo::Promise> objects have fulfilled or rejects as soon as one of them
rejects. If the returned promise fulfills, it is fulfilled with the values from
the fulfilled promises in the same order as the passed promises. This method can
be useful for aggregating results of multiple promises.

=head2 catch

  my $new = $promise->catch(sub {...});

Appends a rejection handler callback to the promise, and returns a new
L<Mojo::Promise> object resolving to the return value of the callback if it is
called, or to its original fulfillment value if the promise is instead
fulfilled.

  # Longer version
  my $new = $promise->then(undef, sub {...});

  # Pass along the rejection reason
  $promise->catch(sub {
    my @reason = @_;
    warn "Something went wrong: $reason[0]";
    return @reason;
  });

  # Change the rejection reason
  $promise->catch(sub {
    my @reason = @_;
    return "This is bad: $reason[0]";
  });

=head2 clone

  my $new = $promise->clone;

Return a new L<Mojo::Promise> object cloned from this promise that is still
pending.

=head2 finally

  my $new = $promise->finally(sub {...});

Appends a fulfillment and rejection handler to the promise, and returns a new
L<Mojo::Promise> object resolving to the original fulfillment value or rejection
reason.

  # Do something on fulfillment and rejection
  $promise->finally(sub {
    my @value_or_reason = @_;
    say "We are done!";
  });

=head2 race

  my $new = Mojo::Promise->race(@promises);

Returns a new L<Mojo::Promise> object that fulfills or rejects as soon as one of
the passed L<Mojo::Promise> objects fulfills or rejects, with the value or
reason from that promise.

=head2 reject

  my $new  = Mojo::Promise->reject(@reason);
  $promise = $promise->reject(@reason);

Build rejected L<Mojo::Promise> object or reject the promise with one or more
rejection reasons.

  # Longer version
  my $promise = Mojo::Promise->new->reject(@reason);

=head2 resolve

  my $new  = Mojo::Promise->resolve(@value);
  $promise = $promise->resolve(@value);

Build resolved L<Mojo::Promise> object or resolve the promise with one or more
fulfillment values.

  # Longer version
  my $promise = Mojo::Promise->new->resolve(@value);

=head2 then

  my $new = $promise->then(sub {...});
  my $new = $promise->then(sub {...}, sub {...});
  my $new = $promise->then(undef, sub {...});

Appends fulfillment and rejection handlers to the promise, and returns a new
L<Mojo::Promise> object resolving to the return value of the called handler.

  # Pass along the fulfillment value or rejection reason
  $promise->then(
    sub {
      my @value = @_;
      say "The result is $value[0]";
      return @value;
    },
    sub {
      my @reason = @_;
      warn "Something went wrong: $reason[0]";
      return @reason;
    }
  );

  # Change the fulfillment value or rejection reason
  $promise->then(
    sub {
      my @value = @_;
      return "This is good: $value[0]";
    },
    sub {
      my @reason = @_;
      return "This is bad: $reason[0]";
    }
  );

=head2 timeout

  my $new  = Mojo::Promise->timeout(5 => 'Timeout!');
  $promise = $promise->timeout(5 => 'Timeout!');
  $promise = $promise->timeout(5);

Create a new L<Mojo::Promise> object with a timeout or attach a timeout to an
existing promise. The promise will be rejected after the given amount of time in
seconds with a reason, which defaults to C<Promise timeout>. Note that this
method is EXPERIMENTAL and might change without warning!

=head2 wait

  $promise->wait;

Start L</"ioloop"> and stop it again once the promise has been fulfilled or
rejected, does nothing when L</"ioloop"> is already running.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious>, L<Mojolicious::Guides>, L<https://mojolicious.org>.

=cut
